🚀
Inception! ( Namaste-React 
)

💡 Please make sure to follow along with the whole ”Namaste 
React" series, starting from Episode-1 and continuing 
through each subsequent episode. The notes are designed 
to provide detailed explanations of each concept along 
with examples to ensure thorough understanding. Each 
episode builds upon the knowledge gained from the 
previous ones, so starting from the beginning will give 
you a comprehensive understanding of React development.

💡 I've got a quick tip for you. To get the most out of 
these notes, it's a good idea to watch Episode-1 first. 
Understanding what ”Akshay” shares in the video will make 
these notes way easier to understand. 

Inception! ( Namaste-React ) 1



So Let’s begin our Namaste React Journey  

In this course we will study how the React 
concepts are actually applied into the industry 
i.e. into the real world projects.

So are you ready to fall in love with React????

Introducing React.

Q ) What is React? Why React is known as ‘React’?

React is a JavaScript Library. The name ‘React’ was chosen 
because the library was designed to allow developers to react 
to changes in state and data within an application, and to 
update the user interface in a declarative and efficient 
manner.

Q ) What is Library?

Library is a collections of prewritten code snippets that can 
be used and reused to perform certain tasks. A particular 
JavaScript library code can be plugged into application code 
which leads to faster development and fewer vulnerabilities to 
have errors.

Examples: React, jQuery

Q ) What is Framework?

Framework provides a basic foundation or structure for a 
website or an application.

Inception! ( Namaste-React ) 2



Examples: Angular

Q ) Similarities between Library and Framework?

Frameworks and libraries are code written by third parties to 
solve regular/common problems or to optimise performance.

Q ) Difference between Library and Framework?

A key difference between the two is Inversion of control. When 
using a library, the control remains with the developer who 
tells the application when to call library functions. When 
using a framework, the control is reversed, which means that 
the framework tells the developer where code needs to be 
provided and calls it as it requires.

* Emmet:
Emmet is the essential toolkit for web-developers. It allows you 
to type shortcuts that are then expanded into full-fledged 

Inception! ( Namaste-React ) 3



boiler plate code for writing HTML and CSS.

Q ) Create Hello World Program using only HTML?

Q ) Create Hello World Program using only JavaScript?

Inception! ( Namaste-React ) 4



Q ) Create Hello World Program using only React?

* Cross Origin:
   The crossorigin attribute in the script tag enables Cross-
Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for loading external JavaScript 
files from different origin than the hosting web page. This 
allows the script to access resources from the server hosting 
the script, such as making HTTP requests or accessing data.

Q ) What is {} denotes in above code?

Inception! ( Namaste-React ) 5



This (id='title'), classes, etc should come under {}. Whenever 
I'm passing inside {}, will go as tag attributes of h1.

📢 NOTE: React will overwrite everything inside "root" and 
replaces with whatever given inside render.

Q ) Do the below HTML code in React?

Inception! ( Namaste-React ) 6



To build the structure like this in React

Inception! ( Namaste-React ) 