🚀
Igniting Our App! ( 
Namaste-React )

💡 Please make sure to follow along with the whole ”Namaste 
React" series, starting from Episode-1 and continuing 
through each subsequent episode. The notes are designed 
to provide detailed explanations of each concept along 
with examples to ensure thorough understanding. Each 
episode builds upon the knowledge gained from the 
previous ones, so starting from the beginning will give 
you a comprehensive understanding of React development.

💡 I've got a quick tip for you. To get the most out of 
these notes, it's a good idea to watch Episode-2 first. 
Understanding what ”Akshay” shares in the video will make 
these notes way easier to understand. 

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 1



So far, here’s what we have learned in the 
previous episode. 

We studied about Libraries, Frameworks, their 
differences.

We have also created Hello World! using HTML, 
JavaScript, and React.

We have also studies about what is Emmet, CORS 
(Cross Origin)

Igniting Our App.

Q ) To make our app production ready what should we do?

Minify our file (Remove console logs, bundle things up)

Need a server to run things

📢 NOTE: Minify —> Optimization —>Clean console —> Bundle

* Bundlers:
A bundler is a tool that bundles our app, packages our app so 
that it can be shipped to production.

Examples of Bundlers:

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 2



Webpack

Vite

Parcel

📢 NOTE: In create-react-app, the bundler used is webpack.

* Package Manager:
Bundlers are packages. If we want to use a package in our 
code, we have to use a package manager.

We use a package manager known as npm or yarn

* Configuring the Project:

npm init

It creates a package.json file.

Now to install parcel we will do:

npm install -D parcel

Now we will get a package-lock.json file.

* package.json:
Package.json file is a configuration for NPM. Whatever 
packages our project needs, we install those packages using 
npm install <packageName>.

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 3



Once package installation is complete, their versions and 
configuration related information is stored as dependencies 
inside package.json file.

* package-lock.json:
Package-lock.json locks the exact version of packages being 
used in the project.

Q ) What is difference between package.json and 
package.lock.json?

In package. json we have information about generic version 
of installed packages whereas in package.lock.json we have 
information about the specific or exact version of 
installed packages.

* node_modules:
Which gets installed is like a database for the npm.

Every dependency in node_module will have its package.json.

Node modules are very heavy so we should always put this in 
git ignore.

📢 NOTE: Never touch node_modules and package-lock.json

* To ignite our app:

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 4



npx parcel index.html

npx means ‘execute using npm’

index.html is the entry point

* Hot Module Replacement (HMR):
It means that parcel will keep a track of all the files which 
you are updating.

There is File Watcher Algorithm (written in C++). It keeps 
track of all the files which are changing realtime and it 
tells the server to reload.

These are all done by PARCEL

* parcel-cache:
Parcel caches code all the time.

When we run the application, a build is created which takes 
some time in ms.

If we make any code changes and save the application, another 
build will be triggered which might take even less time than 
the previous build.

This reduction of time is due to parcel cache.

Parcel immediately loads the code from the cache every time 
there is a subsequent build.

On the very first build parcel creates a folder .parcel-
cache where it stores the caches in binary codeformat.

Parcel gives faster build, faster developer experience 
because of caching.

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 5



* dist:
It keeps the files minified for us.

When bundler builds the app, the build goes into a folder 
called dist.

The `/dist` folder contains the minimized and optimised 
version the source code.

Along with the minified code, the /dist folder also comprises 
of all the compiled modules that may or may not be used with 
other systems.

When we run command:

npx parcel index.html

This will create a faster development version of our project 
and serves it on the server.

When I tell parcel to make a production build:

npx parcel build index.html

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 6



It creates a lot of things, minify your file.

And the parcel will build all the production files to 
the dist folder.

* Parcel features at a glance:
Hot Module Replacement (HMR)

File Watcher Algorithm - C++

Bundling

Minify Code

Cleaning our code

Dev and production build

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 7



Super fast build algorithm

Image Optimization

Caching while development

Compression

Compatible with older browser versions

Https on dev

Image Optimization

Port No

Consistency Hashing Algorithm

Zero Config

Tree Shaking

* Transitive Dependencies :
We have our package manager which takes care of our 
transitive dependencies of our code.

If we’ve to build a production ready app which uses all 
optimisations (like minify, bundling, compression, etc), we 
need to do all these.

But we can’t do this alone, we need some dependencies on it. 
Those dependencies are also dependent on other dependencies.

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 8



* Browserslist:
Browserslist is a tool that specifies which browsers should 
be supported/compatible in your frontend app.

It makes our code compatible for a lot of browsers.

In package.json file do:

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 9



* Tree Shaking:
Tree shaking is a process of removing the unwanted code that 
we do not use while developing the application. 

In computing, tree shaking is a dead code elimination 
technique that is applied when optimizing code.

Igniting Our App! ( Namaste-React ) 10